Most companies have at least three distinct environments for their applications.
Something like a development environment,
sometimes test or staging, and production.
Of course, there can be more,
but let's start there.
In a perfect world with unlimited budgets,
the environments would be identical.
But in reality, they don't need to be deployed at the same scale.
They just need to have the exact same configuration.
How can you ensure that the configurations are the same?
By using terraform modules.
Terraform modules are at the most basic level,
a set of terraform configuration files in a folder.
The beauty of modules is that they can be reused in different environments,
so that the code in the environments is exactly the same.
This means that your terraform is not only reusable, but also maintainable,
because any updates or changes made to a module
will be reflected throughout the entire application life-cycle.
Now that's amazing, and a way to ensure that
your infrastructure changes are always in sync,
when is essentially, made up almost entirely of reusable modules.
Let's take a look at a typical module folder structure here,
and see where we can reuse code throughout the life-cycle.
Terraform uses input variables to modify modules,
so they perform differently in different environments.
For example, perhaps, all of your environments save data to S3,
but of course, they don't all save them to the same S3 bucket,
or right to the same database.
To eliminate the potential name conflict of hard-coded resources,
we would create a variable's file with the input variables,
and define the variables in the main.tf, for each environment.
You can look at the input variables,
like the API of the module.
It controls how things happen in different environments.
One thing to keep in mind is that your environments are separate for a reason.
The staging environment as a testing ground,
so it's not always ready for prime time.
This is critical when you're making changes and updates to shared modules.
In order to make sure that your production environment isn't
affected by changes to modules and staging,
you create versioned modules.
The best example I have seen of this,
is to have separate Git repositories for reusable modules and live infrastructure,
and specify a version module,
Git URL in the source parameter,
instead of your local file system.
So when you run terraform on it,
it uses GitHub as a source,
and downloads the production version of the file,
instead of the version that's being tested.
A best practice is to build every configuration as a module.
Modules are portable and shareable.
Terraform has a public repo of modules you can,
and should use as well.
When you think about your infrastructure,
in terms of modules,
the possibilities are endless.